If you want immediate tricks to reduce
your stress right now, this is a great
video to watch. In this video, I sit
with a woman and we talk about the
tricks to immediately get less stressed
and how to dismantle the inner critic
that inevitably makes that stress come
back. And along the way, you'll be
invited to do some experiments.
There's dozens of ways to reduce stress
right now. I mean, for instance, hum.
Let's take a minute and we'll just hum
for a second.
[Music]
I mean, that's just one of the most
silly but simple ways to do it. It
stimulates the vagus nerve, so that
reduces stress. But also, you'll notice
that the brain stopped a lot of what it
was doing while you were humming. That's
a simple one. Another easy way to reduce
stress is to just take your hand, put it
on anything and feel the texture. Move
your hand and feel the texture.
Yeah, you can see that,
right? You can put all of your attention
on the bottom of your feet.
You just keep as much of your attention
as possible on the bottom of your feet.
You can take a moment and listen to the
words that I'm saying, but instead of
listening to my words, listen to the
silence that's around my words in
between my words, the higher
frequencies, the lower frequencies
that are all silent right now. And pay
attention to those. Boom. Immediately.
So, what this is called in nervous
system language is downregulating your
nervous system. There is literally an
infinite number of ways to do it.
And the problem is often is that you can
downregulate yourself out of stress, but
it doesn't actually handle the
underlying issues. But it's really
useful, super useful. You don't want to
not use this tool. There's a lot of
times where that downregulation is
absolutely necessary, but you can start
downregulating yourself completely into
almost like a drugged stuper where
you're not actually addressing issues.
It becomes an act of avoidance,
but it's a really important tool. And so
there's literally infinite forms of
this. And they come in about three
categories.
One is breath. There's a
five and a half second breath or six
breath which is just breathing in for
six seconds, breathing out for six
seconds or five and a half seconds.
This is like a super simple one. There's
box breathing, that's another one.
There's humming, that's another one.
There's putting all of your attention on
the way that the breath feels going in
and out of your nose.
All of these things can help you
downregulate, can help you sleep, can
help you prepare for sleep.
And so they're incredibly useful.
Another one that's not breath related is
sensation related, which is how do I
feel the senses? It's I call coming to
your senses.
So here's a quick lesson for coming to
your senses. And this is something that
you can do anywhere at any time. And
it's just great to do when you're
stressed.
So, just take a deep breath.
Make a little sound on your exhale.
And your job is just to put your
attention
on the sensations on the outside of your
body.
Now, if you need to, you can just put
your hand and rub it on your leg and
just pay attention to where
it feels on your fingertips and your
leg, your pants
or skirt.
Or you can wiggle your toes
and notice how the soles of your feet
and your soles of your toes feel against
the bottom of your shoe or the floor.
Or you can just feel how the air feels
on your skin.
Or you can put your hands together and
just rub your thumbs together slowly.
And you'll notice that already your
nervous system is more calm
already. Everything is
less stressful.
It took about a minute.
And all that's required is that you slow
down and feel the sensations on the
outside of your body. You can even
create them. You just have to feel them
and then boom, things are calmer.
Slowly feel
the sensations.
So, it's really nice to get into the
pattern of doing these things when a
certain thing triggers it. the same way
that you would do coffee, right? You
wake up in the morning and you walk past
the coffee place, you smell the coffee,
you go in and you get the coffee. It's
like, "Oh, I'm I know that I get
frustrated when I call up the help desk
and the person, you know, doesn't
understand me and they never help me
out." So, as I'm dialing, I'm
just these little tricks to downregulate
yourself. The thing to watch out for,
like I said, is that
it can also be an act of avoidance,
right? So, what I've noticed, I was
working with a CEO the other day and
they were working on getting angry at
meetings. They didn't want to be getting
angry at meetings or frustrated. And
this is a CEO who does not show the
frustration. So, he may be frustrated,
but it's not like he's yelling or
abusive,
but it throws him all day. And so, he's
like, I don't want to be frustrated. So,
we were learning some of these down
reggulation techniques and he's like,
"Oh, that's great. I'm Nope.
Frustration's back
and and it's cuz he wasn't using it as a
way to get rid of the frustration." He
could do that and then it becomes even
more dangerous. But what he noticed is
the the natural thing which is the
underlying issue isn't going to get
resolved by downregulating.
Downregulating might help you find a
solution.
It might it might help you take the
right action.
It might help you get into a a greater
sense of yourself, a more space to be
able to take the action that's going to
most benefit you. But it isn't the
action that's going to actually take
care of the stressor. It isn't seeing
through the thought.
So for you to really understand and see
through the thoughts that you're having,
the first thing you have to do is be
aware of the thoughts that you're
having. And that's what this exercise is
about.
So for five minutes you're going to
narrate out loud every thought that you
have in your head. Now you can record
this which will be useful so you can
hear it in the future or you can not
record it and record it later if you'd
like. But you can just talk out loud
every thought that you have. And so
maybe your thought is
I need to get to work. Maybe your
thought is I should stop watching
YouTube videos. Maybe your thought is
you should be prettier. Maybe your
thought is
I need to do the dishes. Whatever your
thought is, it doesn't matter. Your job
is to just say whatever thought you have
out loud. Every thought you have out
loud for the next five minutes.
That's it.
And you'll start to be aware of how
you're talking to yourself and how
quickly you're talking to yourself.
It's best to use the
tone and quality of the voice that is
speaking. So you're not speaking in a
different tone than what you hear.
You're speaking in the exact same tone
as what you hear.
Okay, go ahead and get started.
One of the biggest, if not the biggest
cause of stress in the system is the
internal critic. That is the repetitious
voice in your head that keeps on
criticizing you all the time. And I
think it was a Mayo Clinic, maybe it was
a Cleveland Clinic that has something on
the web that says that we have 50 to
60,000 thoughts a day, right? And most
of them aren't novel. They're not, oh,
here's how to invent electricity, you
know, or oh, here's what I should do
around AI for my business. Most of them
are
you should do this, you should do this,
or why aren't you why haven't you lost
weight, why haven't you lost weight or
you have to quit drinking or just a
repetition of criticism that's
happening. Even if it's you can do this,
you can do this, you can do this, that's
assuming that you actually can't do it
and you need a pep talk, which is
another form of criticism. So the the
voice in the head is just this internal
stack of criticism. The other way to
think about it, it is an internal stack
of attack is just whack whack whack
whack whack. And that is stressful. If
you had a boss
who was hanging out and just like right
over your shoulder, no, don't type that
way. No, type this way. Are you doing
enough? You have to do this other thing,
too. And just hitting you like that
60,000 times a day. It would be so
stressful. You would be, "Oh, please."
You'd kill him, kill yourself, kill, you
know, it'd just be horrible. But we're
living with that all the time. And and
that's abusive. And if you can really
see the abuse of that, you can
understand why there's just so much
stress in life. And you'll notice that
people who have different voices in
their head have different levels of
stress in their life for sure. So
there's a couple questions about, well,
how do I address that? And the first one
though is just to know that it's
possible for that critical voice in the
head to almost completely go away or
just be very silent. Another thing that
you can do that's really useful is to
realize that the voice isn't yours. You
will notice that the voice in your head
that's critical sounds a lot like
somebody, your mom or your dad or your
grandmother or a teacher in fifth grade
or whatever that is. But wherever it
comes from, you'll get this thing about
you'll see, oh, this isn't mine. this is
talking to me. I don't have to believe
it. And that's the second thing you can
do about the critical voice in your head
is you start to realize that
if it was a politician, you were you
would be an acolyte. You'd be the person
who listens to the politician goes,
"Yeah, everything that guy says. Yeah.
Yeah. I believe all of that. Yeah. Yeah.
And then you can realize, oh, I can have
a different relationship with it. What
it says isn't true. what it says is just
a a repeating pattern of something that
somebody else believed in my past and
then that gives you this framework of oh
I have
a whole another set of options about how
to relate to it. So critical voice
speaks and you can say, "Yeah, that's
true." Or you can say, "Hey, that's a
pretty crappy way to manage me. Could
you try another way?" Or you could say,
"Oh, I see that you love me and that
you're caring for me, but
not like that." Or you could say, "Yeah,
I see that you're really scared and I'm
going to be right here with you." You
can respond to the voice in the head in
lots of different ways to reduce that
stress.
So, here's an exercise you can take with
you. You're going to do the exact same
experiment you did before where you are
speaking all the things the voice in
your head says out loud. This time
you're definitely going to record it
and then you are going to have that
written up on a document using AI or
you're going to write it yourself. And
then next to each one of the things you
say you're going to write down where you
learned it from.
particularly the critical ones. Where
did you learn that you weren't pretty
enough? Where did you learn that you
needed to work harder? Where did you
learn that you messed up at the last
conversation? Like, where did you learn
those things? And you're just going to
write down who gave you this critical
voice in the head.
If you found this video helpful, please
subscribe. And if you want more tools
for reducing stress, you can go here or
click on the link below.